<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2008-09-04</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.1.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>Block Devices</keyword>
<keyword>Disk space</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1>
<title>Block Devices</title>

<para>
The module window displays the available file devices and some
information about each device. It also allows you to control mount
points, and mount/unmount devices.
</para>

<para>
Normally, the following pieces of information are shown in this tab:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>an icon depicting the type of storage</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>device name</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>file system type</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>total size</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>mount point</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>free disk space</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>the percentage of space used as a number and as a
graph.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton> clicking on the header of a particular
column sorts the devices according to that variable. A second
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click sorts in the opposite order.
</para>

<para>
<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> clicking on a row pops up a menu. If
that device is not currently mounted, the <guimenuitem>Mount
Device</guimenuitem> option is available. If the device is mounted, it
can be unmounted by choosing <guimenuitem>Unmount
Device</guimenuitem>. Selecting <guimenuitem>Open in
File Manager</guimenuitem> opens a new window with a graphical view of
the files on that device.
</para>

<para>
The appropriate mount and unmount commands, and how the file manager is
opened from the context menu, can be configured from the &kdiskfree;
application.
</para>

<sect2>
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section is modified from the <application>kdf</application>
documentation which was authored by &Jonathan.Singer;
&Jonathan.Singer.mail;</para>

<para>Modified for &kde; 2.0 by &Mike.McBride;
&Mike.McBride.mail;</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>
</article>

